Artic: Metadata extractor from scientific documents
=====

Artic is a tool that automatically identifies the metadata information of a scientific paper. These information are: 
title, authors, emails, affiliations, conference name, conference date, conference location, conference year, ISBN and publisher.
This first version is strongly-dependent on OmniPage Version 18. That said, the expected input for Artic is the paper as an XML file that has been generated by
OmniPage, and the expected output will be a JSON file with the corresponding metadata content.

Artic version 2.0 will target open-source tools in order to extract 
rich text information from PDFs (e.g. font size, font format, bold, italic, among others).

License: [MIT](http://www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php)

Dependencies: 

*  [Java 7](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jre7-downloads-1880261.html) 
*  [Omni Page Professional 18](http://www.nuance.com/for-business/by-product/omnipage/standard/index.htm)
*  [CRF++](https://code.google.com/p/crfpp/)

##How to execute##

After all the dependencies are installed and configured, execute the following steps to get the JSON file with metadata content.

* [Download](https://github.com/alansouzati/artic/releases/download/artic-1.0/artic-1.0.jar) Artic jar file
* Go to the folder where OmniPage XML files are located
* Run the following command:
```java
    java -jar artic-1.0.jar
```
* At the same location, a .json file will be created with the same name as the XML file of the given paper, which looks like this:
```json
    {
        "title": "Artic: Metadata Extractor tool",
        "authors": [
            {
                "name": "Alan Souza",
                "affiliation": "UFRGS",
                "email": "alansouzati@gmail.com"
            }
        ],
        "venues": [
            {
                "name": "DocEng",
                "publisher": "ACM",
                "date": "September 16-19",
                "year": "2014",
                "isbn": "978-1-4503-1994-2/13/04"
            }
        ]
    }
```

##Configuration##

Artic provides some configuration parameters in order to allow changes to be made on the generation process.
The most important attribute that could be eventually changed is the boundary configuration for author and affiliations.
The configuration is provided through a properties file **artic.properties**, which is defined bellow: 

```properties
    # default page parser engine is the OmniPage Professional Version 18
    page.parser.instance=br.ufrgs.artic.parser.omnipage.OmniPageParser
    
    # boundaries configuration - changing these values can dramatically affect the result of the system
    author.page.boundary.horizontal=21
    author.page.boundary.vertical=40
    
    affiliation.page.boundary.horizontal=17
    affiliation.page.boundary.vertical=40
    
    authorAffiliation.page.boundary.horizontal=17
    authorAffiliation.page.boundary.vertical=70
```

For example, **author.page.boundary.horizontal** represents the horizontal boundary that is applied for authors. In this case,
a given word is considered belonging to the same author if it is within 21% distance to the current author being analyzed. 
Increasing this number may join distant words together. Similarly, decreasing this number may split close words apart. 
We have experimentally set to 21% based on our dataset.

The **page.parser.instance** defines the engine to parse the input (e.g. xml) to the Artic Page instance. For this first version,
OmniPageParser is the only one being provided.


